you learned the very important lesson
that emotions are a [ __ ] waste of
time and that they just need to be
removed in whatever way they can
hey man how are you pretty good how are
you done good um
so I'm not quite sure what we're talking
about today but I understand that both
of our communities wanted us to speak
yeah I think so I do a lot of philosophy
politics and then I talk a lot about
like life and life related things so I
think they just thought there'd be some
kind of crossover so yeah so I think I
talk about a lot of things that maybe I
don't talk about philosophy or politics
but I do talk about life so I try to
help people understand themselves and
their minds and sort of help people
that's why I started streaming on Twitch
because I think that there's a the
mental health challenges and people's
understanding of themselves is like
becoming a real problem like in the
United States there's some very
disturbing epidemiologic data about
mental health so mental health
now causes more I think greater
morbidity in mortality than
cardiovascular disease and cancer
suicide rate has gone up by 50% I think
in teenagers over the last decade not
dad morbidity and mortality so that
includes like loss of productivity and
things like that so disease burden not
straight mortality sure and I think the
last I read I think it was like
something like 18% of women in the
United States have taken like are either
have had an SSRI within like the past
six months or something like an insane
stat and that'll ease any of that for
men yeah it's pretty crazy yeah so but
my so a lot of times people come on
streams so the main reason that people
come on my stream is to actually it was
that Soylent cocoa-y am I in trouble
they're not my mental health okay III
like I saw when I had I tried so I went
for a while it sort of did good things
and bad things for me but okay so most
people tend to come on because they're
interested in in some kind of like
understanding about themselves or help
in some way but my understanding is that
that's not some that you're pretty
content and you're pretty happy and
you're not interested in that
yeah I think or unless
I really don't have like a specific
thing to talk about to like to be 100%
blunt I think my audience wants me to
talk to somebody and then just see me
get like very emotional and cry that
seems to be like what they're all like
kind of guys right now so um but I mean
otherwise yeah but yeah whatever your my
my my my audience is calling you a raid
boss I'm night so I think that they're
looking for the same thing I think that
they're gonna be disappointed yeah
probably I consider myself to be like a
pretty I'll say grounded person which
sounds really dismissive of I've heard
that you're more into like like Eastern
or spiritual related stuff personally I
don't care for that kind of stuff but I
think that if it offers like a great
value and it can be descriptive of some
underlying truths that I think it's
totally fine so I think a lot of people
are expecting me to like go really hard
into saying like all forms of whatever
are stupid which I don't really agree
with so or yeah I don't think I would
ever say that so yeah I'm not really
sure what what what okay so please can
you tell me what you mean by grounded um
I'm I guess um there's two different
ways to go with this
I'm a very empirical kind of person I
guess when I look at stuff that I choose
to believe in when it comes to like
making statements of fact about the
world I'm very big on like what can we
observe what can we test I guess it's
kind of a boring answer but that's not
away from a lot of like yeah a lot of
light like I'm very a theistic in terms
of like my looking at like gods and
whatnot I don't really believe in the
supernatural anything like that and you
say you're empirical about sort of
looking at the external world I would
guess that you're actually empirical
about looking at yourself as well I mean
as much as you can be yeah so what do
you mean by that
um I mean like I would consider myself
to be like a materialist or like a
physicalist I don't believe in an
immaterial world but I mean obviously
consciousness is a very complicated
process and the question about something
like that can emerge from like
underlying properties is very
complicated and it's hard for me to like
say with any absolute certainty you know
what I can know about my own conscious
state in an empirical sense but I mean
I'd like to think that everything is
empirical that's the type of analysis
that I tend to occasion yeah yeah so so
you're talking about sort of
consciousness of being an emergent
property which is not anything that has
to do
you that's sort of like a scientific
view right it's a it's something that
comes from the external world it's about
the science of the origin of
consciousness sure yeah but I would
actually guess that you are empirical
within yourself so that yeah I see yeah
yeah and and when you say like so I
think you know what I mean can you just
explain for everyone what we're talking
about cuz I agree with you by the way
that I think we're a lot more similar
than people realize yeah possibly yeah I
guess when I say that I'm empirical in
my own analysis I mean what I try to say
is it like something I learned very
early on in life is that your memory and
your interpretation of events is highly
unreliable that getting external like
points of view of yourself is incredibly
important because we are very selective
in terms of what we remember about
ourselves and how we view ourselves so I
try like very hard to have these like
external cameras these communities that
I consult I'm I try to be very honest
when I look at myself to make sure that
I'm out you know like telling lies to
myself or not confronting you know a
problem I might have or something that
that's what I mean when I say I try to
be a little bit more empirical about how
I view myself yeah yeah so but so it
sounds like your empiricism the way with
with that the way that you look at
yourself is by using external lenses to
make sure that your interpretation of
things is aligned with what the external
world says yeah I guess basically yeah
I'm looking for congruence there that
doesn't result from me just selecting
groups of people that tell me what I
want to hear but yeah okay I got like a
more true view of myself sure and um
you're happy I think yeah I would say so
yeah for sure what does that feel like
um like if I wake up if I'm supposed to
like sleep for eight hours like I think
I do really well on about seven and a
half hours of sleep seven and a half
eight hours of sleep if I wake up like
two hours early I'm usually like so
looking forward to stream that I I can't
go back to bed I usually like we'll just
go downstairs and start working I really
enjoy like my day-to-day life like my
experience is pretty high I look forward
to talking people I look forward to
playing games even if they make me hate
myself because League of Legends is
horrible game but like a my general like
baseline like mental status is like very
excited about like everything I can do
okay and so I'm just going
just tunnel down for a second so mm-hmm
it sounds like the experience of the
happiness of your life too has nothing
to do with external congruence um oh
absolutely
of course okay um so okay and how long
would you say you've been happy I think
my whole life I think I've always had
like a pretty high mental state okay I
mean obviously within like there have
been periods of my life where I have
like been sad or like something has
happened sure but like those are like
traceable to like this is happening now
so now I'm upset but like my baseline
like as long as nothing's going on
that's bad it's very high I would say
and so you've kind of always been this
way I think so yeah um so let me just
try to ask you kind of like a couple of
clarifying questions yeah go for it um
one is so I'm almost getting a sense
from you that the experience of emotion
is actually different from the happiness
that you're talking about that you have
some sense of underlying contentment
which is almost independent doesn't
necessarily change if you get let's say
angry or sad yeah I would say so
yeah yeah I would separate those two
things out quite a bit being what do you
think that is um yeah so I guess my
personally I don't know for sure but
like I guess like my personal answer I
would say that like my greatest asset is
I feel like a very confident on myself
okay how much love the person that I am
I like Who I am and I enjoy that
regardless of kind of what people around
me say and I can always be like
comfortable with myself and I feel okay
with that and do you think that's what
leads to your sense of like happiness or
contentment that would be my guess when
I see a lot of people that are unhappy
it feels like a lot of that comes from
their view of how other people view them
or kind of like their place or their
just contentment with where they fit in
in society they don't like the feedback
that they're getting feels that way yeah
yeah so I'm trying to get a sense of
which one is the chicken and which one
is the egg because you know you're kind
of saying that you're confident in who
you are to me it actually makes sense
that that confidence actually comes from
being sort of generally content with who
you are as a person
yeah I don't know um I used to say I
used to kind of advocate for people to
like grow like a sense of confidence and
everything because you know from that
you develop habits and everything that
allow you to love yourself and etc but
you know if I'm really honest with
myself I'm not sure if I could foster
that in my 20s or if that's just
something I've kind of always had from a
really early age get there through a
combination of lucky biological and
environmental factors it just kind of
like led me into being the person I am
so yeah I don't know I can't draw like a
causal link unfortunately yeah I think
that makes sense because what you're
saying is that you've sort of always had
it so it's unclear what the origin of
that was because it's always been around
yeah it seems to be the case yeah yeah
hmm I'm just gonna think for a second
sure have you ever read anything by
Krishnamoorthy I'm horrible when it
comes to reading the time commitment is
grit my I can read pretty well but the
time command has really got me watching
TV shows watching movies and reading
like very hard for me to like sit down
and do it for long periods of time
okay I think you may find it interesting
just in terms of you know I I know you
that you don't hold a lot of like
spirituality or things like that and
you've described yourself as pretty
atheistic so I just think that if if you
are interested in sort of exploring
spirituality from a perspective that I
think is a lot more aligned with your
point of view Krishnamoorthy is someone
that I would highly recommend and that's
also for the people who are respectively
watching as well that I I think so a lot
of people how can I say this like
destiny why do you wait can I real quick
well you think yeah what is the name
just so I can write it down so much I
know kr is H n a and then either mu R th
Y or mo o r th wise I think it's usually
mu but okay gotcha
so I think you pointed out something
very important which is that a lot of
people have their sense of contentment
be related to other people's opinions of
that yeah which is very negative
negative what do you mean by negative I
think that when you become reliant on
how other people view you I think that
your mental state is like perpetually
held hostage by the people around you
which I consider to be very negative I
don't know if that's like a normal human
opinion or not but like yeah I wouldn't
want like if somebody around me says
that like oh hey like I don't like what
you're doing right now a lot of people
like view that as like personal attacks
and like can start to lose confidence in
themselves just because they're getting
negative feedback from people which i
think is like very bad yeah so I think
in in the in the system of yoga that
aspect is called a hum God or ego okay
that a sense of self can be based on two
things one is sort of an internal like
experience of self and the second kind
of self that we have is based on a more
common external identity so anything
that goes on a resume is a part of that
thing and the opinions of others how
other people receive you like that can
form a sense of self and that sense of
self is called the ego and generally
speaking in yogic philosophy having an
ego that's the larger your ego is the
more discontent you will be so what I'm
hearing from you is that your sense of
self is actually not based on external
things it's based on this internal sense
that you've always had of kind of being
confident to yourself in some degree of
internal tranquility yeah definitely
why don't you think other people have
that what separates like what is the
causative factor that that has you being
one way in them being another way this
is its I can give like conjecture about
this but I always caution people and I
say this like it's hard to draw causal
links to anything I grew up like
relatively independent like my parents
were busy with stuff growing up so I
kind of foster like a sense of
Independence and it seemed to me that
growing up typically like if you had
problems the way that people are kind of
told to resolve problems is to just get
affirmation from friends or family
without ever actually
dressing the problems so people kind of
grow up thinking that like the way that
I know that I'm mentally healthier
mentally sound so if other people around
me are telling me that I'm mentally
healthier mentally sound but then
obviously as soon as you start to run
into confrontation that your worldview
kind of falls apart because now when
people are telling you you're not doing
well you feel like you're actually like
unwell which i think is really bad yeah
okay and is there any part of you that
is concerned that so when when a large
part like I understand that a lot of
people are kind of contrary towards you
or take issue with some of your
perspectives or beliefs what's your
understanding of like what they take
issue with um it depends this is
something this is probably the biggest
thing that I try to keep in check is
very easy to get lost especially being a
streamer but but even for normal people
to kind of get lost in an echo chamber
where you're disregarding external
opinions of yourself
I very much keep in mind what people
think of me I know what every community
thinks to me and I know the reasons why
they don't like me and then my goal is
to like understand why people disagree
with me and then to integrate those
understandings into my life is see if
they're things I want to change I don't
want to change so I guess like two
examples I've give us like maybe I get
the feedback a lot that like oh destiny
is very rude all the time to everybody
and maybe when I get that feedback a lot
maybe I watch some videos and I find out
hey I actually talk over people a lot
like I can change that or maybe instead
I watch a video and I find out like I
don't really think I spoke over this
person well I think I just you know
responded well to his arguments so you
know in one case I would say okay well
you know I took their feedback I you
know did a little bit of introspection I
found out well I need to change this in
another case I took their feedback I
looked at the situation and I kind of
determined well I think they just feel
that way but I think the perception is
incorrect so then I have to feel you
know do I want to deal with that
incorrect perception or do I just ignore
it and I kind of move forward I guess is
how I try to integrate other people's
feedback into my own self concept or
whatever you know and or their
particular I think that makes a lot of
sense so it sounds like when people
criticize you in some way you you kind
of really do your your best job to take
a look and see if their criticisms have
merit and then you kind of conclude they
do have merit or they don't have merit
and so that that sounds like it makes
sense to me let me just think for a
second
their particular things so like I was
kind of confused about what this was as
I mentioned earlier so I did like just a
Google search for you and I looked at
your subreddit and then I looked at some
of the top some of the top posts of all
time on your sub read why is that funny
yeah because depending on what you look
at me you can find anything from guy
that did you know 40,000 in charity in a
single day to guy that is a pedophile
rapist that has a secret daughter to God
like there's like a million different
things you can read about me depending
on which communities you jump into so
yeah why do you think that is where do
you think there's such a wide disparity
between how you're viewed I think that's
the intersection of like several
different underlying topics any of which
I mean like one is it like people are
very like people are very holistic views
of somebody or I should say people are
very binary views of people it's
impossible for a good person to have
negative characteristics they're they're
wholly good or wholly negative so for
some communities as soon as they find
out one negative thing everything about
me becomes negative so for instance over
the past year I'm a very left-leaning
political person I'm incredibly
left-leaning and my economic positions
into my social positions but I'm not a
communist or I'm not a socialist so I've
had this issue with a lot of
left-leaning people that see that I'm a
capitalist and now all of a sudden I'm
not just a capitalist I'm also an alt
writer I'm a right wing I support you
know imperialism and all these crazy
things just because we don't know a line
on that one view so like in that case I
would say well these people don't like
me because we disagree on this one
position and then they start to like
attribute like everything that doesn't
have that particular position to me
right so like that would be like one
reason and yeah there's like a million
other I have to look like would look at
like every single individual like sure
thing that people have with me to figure
out why they sure so select it's almost
like so you know a human being has many
many facets in many many nuances and
beliefs are not don't like like a human
beings beliefs don't generally subscribe
to like a whole manifesto of like being
liberal or communist or capitalist like
we all have different kinds of beliefs
in different shades of beliefs and what
happens is you encounter different
groups of people who will kind of put
you in one bucket or the other right
yeah I think it's a very normal human
thing to
yeah so I mean I agree I think it's a
completely normal human thing to do and
I think that most people are just as
multifaceted as you are and yet hope so
you you seem to have a lot more
discrepancy in terms of how people view
you compared to everyone else sure how
do you understand that um I very much
have like my personal identity and the
things that I believe in and when it
comes time for me to decide like if I
like a particular thing or if I don't
like a particular thing I have like an
internal kind of rubric by which I score
things it feels to me like what people
tend to do is they tend to try to group
themselves into certain communities and
then how they feel about a particular
thing is usually more reflection of what
that person thinks everybody in that
group wants them to say so like for
instance let's say uh-oh you say extreme
example let's say somebody presented me
with like a very sparkly pink dress and
they wanted they were like hey would you
like to wear this I would evaluate that
in terms of like well what colors do I
like I don't really like pink I don't
particularly like the way that my legs I
think would look at a dress I don't
think I would enjoy wearing a dress and
that would be my answer but I feel like
I vote if I would ask a lot of people
that question like would you ever wear a
dress the answer would be more they
would think okay what part of what group
am I in and then what is our answer
supposed to be in regards to like
wearing dress okay I'm a man don't
[ __ ] wear dresses and the answer we
like of course not dude that's so stupid
like it feels like the answer from I get
from people when it comes to evaluating
things they like or don't like for
instance is usually a reflection of what
they feel like the group they belong to
would like or not like
yeah what is what I mean so people are
multifaceted people yes judgments and
input people into groups mm-hmm so like
I I mean it sounds to me like the answer
that you provided which is that no I
don't want to wear that pink dress
because I'm not cannot so happy about
the way that maybe my legs would look or
I'm not a huge fan of the color pink I
mean that to me sounds like a how can I
put this a less chaotic chaos inducing
answer then [ __ ] that I'm not gonna wear
a dress mm-hmm like I would think that
that kind of
Spahn sacktual ii leads to a general
sense of like understanding on the part
of other people as i mostly the one like
a real detailed answer yeah because your
answers thought like you come across as
like thoughtful right and not you the
action airy and so i would think that if
you were thoughtful and not reactionary
like you're saying most people are that
people would like that you wouldn't be
such a divisive figure on the internet
um maybe so i'm gonna come off okay so
here's where i have to fully admit that
because of the work that i do
there might be a horrendous selection
bias applied to the types of people that
I talk to I might talk to the worst of
the worst sinner right but it seems to
me that most people don't actually
appreciate a new monster answer if the
question that's asked demands an answer
from an entire group that would be one
way even considering an answer to that
would be absolutely unfathomable so like
a real-life example I can give is good
yeah I mean so like I completely agree
with you
but what I'm trying to understand is
like I don't understand anything that
you're saying seems to apply to everyone
else right so people are multifaceted
people make judgments therefore any
random person that you take on the
street is gonna fall into like one of
two camps and that people will react to
them they'll like if you're in the
middle of the political spectrum people
who are on the the conservative side
will call you a [ __ ] liberal and if
you're on the liberal end of the
spectrum they're gonna call you a
[ __ ] alt writer and so what I'm
trying to understand is like why and
that's true I completely accept your
premise so what I'm curious about is
what is your understanding of if that's
the case why are you perceived as you
put it so like you said like when I said
I like you know I should Google the and
you're like why I guess okay so actually
maybe I misinterpreted the same and
maybe there's a point of disagreement we
have actually I don't know if I would
agree necessarily that people are
multifaceted in the way that you are
thinking multifaceted I was thinking of
in terms of like is somebody like a
Republican or a Democrat probably not
people have views from both but that's
not necessarily because they're a
multi-faceted person that's considered
every position it's more that they
belong to a more fundamental group that
defers on those two
so they might identify more strongly as
like evangelical Christian and that's
more important to being a Republican or
a Democrat and as a result of being an
evangelical Christian they have some
beliefs that may or may not fit kind of
like both sides I guess is what I'm
saying yeah so but then depending on
which party they're talking to aren't
they going to get bucketed by that
respective group um well it depends on
the it depends on the pair on the lens
to which that conversation is happening
like if this was a conversation or
something in a church then they'll get
bucketed if it's a conversation that's
hopping like sheral italy then they
might not they might just end up getting
attacked by everybody depending on what
their beliefs are I guess I know what
type of person they are yeah so I'm
still confused about like fine I'll you
know I I think you explained about what
multi-faceted could look like and I
don't think you were that far apart I'm
still a little bit confused about so
you're you're kind of saying that the
reason that you're such a divisive
figure on the Internet which I still
don't really understand how divisive or
not divisive you are you seem pretty
reasonable to me is that people talk to
you and then they end up putting you in
a bucket and because people tend to
think in a binary way right yeah so like
I guess like the the short answer would
be I have a core set of principles that
I believe in that I use to generate like
all of my moral statements all of my
policy positions and that's what I
confer like that there that's what I
consult when I am given a thing to think
about sure feels like for other people
it's more just kind of like they want to
belong to certain groups on the Internet
and then anybody that has a belief that
is separate from any one of those things
instantly rejected as an outsider and
because of the internal positions I have
I don't line up exactly well with any of
these groups so it causes people to like
try to castigate me I guess from these
groups whatever that's the feeling that
I get okay
so you think that the reason that your
view differently is because your process
you don't just subscribe to a particular
on thought-out system yeah you think
through things clearly you develop your
own internal manifesto and it's because
of the uniqueness of your position that
these people who tend to make snap
judgments about people in group people
that your internal process in the way
that you view the world upsets or makes
people fall in love with you yeah
obviously this is like a very high view
of myself this is what I would like to
think yeah
yeah I mean what do you think about that
as you say it like I understand that
that's a high view of yourself in that
you would like to believe that but what
do you think about what do you think
about that when you reflect on that how
does that sound to you I mean I consider
it to be very good but I mean do you
think that's really that different from
other people like you don't think that
other people so let me actually rephrase
that so it's my experience that most
people believe that their beliefs have
been carefully considered and examined
and that they come up with a relatively
unique perspective on the world they may
ascribe themselves to certain group
identities absolutely but that generally
speaking people think that their beliefs
have been well thought out like if you
go to someone you say hey you believe
this because you haven't considered it
properly you haven't considered it fully
and you've just described to a
particular set of like inherited beliefs
they would disagree with you and they
would say that on the contrary I've
thought this through and the reason that
I ascribed to the Republican Party is
because I think the Republicans are
right based on my own internal study
yeah most of them would say that the
vast majority of them 95% plus would be
absolutely wrong that's just been my
personal experience with almost every
single person I've talked to that as
soon as he starts a question like okay
well you think that you've thought this
through as soon as I get about two
questions in be completely and totally
crumble they haven't fought through a
single thing that they said they have
yeah and that seems to be the case with
a lot of people yeah and so help me
understand how you're different um I
guess maybe as a result of growing up
like pretty independent I've had like so
let me be very clear for instance we're
real quick when I say like I I'm
independent or I have my own thoughts
clearly there it's influenced by the
society around me I'm sure how do I play
different games how did seeing different
movies had a grown up in a different
country it's entirely possible I'd be a
completely and totally different person
alright so I will acknowledge that right
I don't believe in any divine freewill
that's given me master control over the
perfect life or whatever I guess I feel
like as a result of growing up
relatively independent I didn't draw my
opinions or what I should or shouldn't
like necessarily from other people and
as a result of that I have like an
internal rubric by which I evaluate
things and the dad's kind of led me to a
unique position where I'm able to take a
topic consider the topic using what I
personally believe without
think of like what a group would you
know approve or disapprove of and then
give an answer that's like I feel
uniquely mine even if other people might
agree with that answer or give the same
answer my thought process I would like
to say so unique to myself and it
doesn't rely on another group to tell me
how I should answer a question okay so
and and so you think that your your
thought process has been very
independently developed you sure you've
been influenced like things just like
everyone else has and that by virtue of
you sort of not catering to other
people's opinions that the divisive
nough state on the Internet is by virtue
of like this internal thought process
that is very like unique and well
thought out yeah I would I would hope so
yeah
and okay let me just think about this so
I'm gonna ask a question that I asked
once before I'm just gonna ask it again
yeah no problem which is that like so
let's say that I take just any person
and I ask them you know how did you come
up with the beliefs that you came up
with I'm imagining would give me and
based on me having asked a lot of people
that question I'm sure you have to maybe
in slightly different contacts they
pretty much everyone that says your
answer right that they have grew up and
they sort of thought independently and
so what I'm trying to understand is if
everyone has an internal process and 95%
of them are right I mean 95% of them are
wrong and it seems like the reason that
you're saying that yours is right and
theirs is wrong is because you can ask
them two questions and they can't answer
question number three four five six
seven eight nine whereas you feel like
you can answer questions 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 and that's why your thought
process stands up better than theirs you
know in a in a in a backwards way yes
so like I'm not so interested in them
understanding like 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 but
more so that like if they don't it's
usually indicative of them inheriting
those top level positions rather than
arriving at them if that makes sense so
like for instance if you want to ask me
a question about like like
should health care be free in the United
States like I started a very fundamental
possession position to figure that out
right like what do I think goodness is
and then what's the best way to apply
goodness and then you know what's the
most applied position within the night
and then I kind of work through there so
then if you back up and ask me a
question I can kind of figure that out
right for some people you know it might
just be that they read off of their
favorite political candidate that like
oh you know socialized health care is
horrible or socialized healthcare is
great and then if I ask them a question
about oh you think it's good or bad well
why if they can't answer it it's not
that I'm like I I think that it's so bad
that you don't know the two three four
five six seven eight nine blah blah blah
it's more so that it's like it's clear
that you haven't really thought about
this it's just somebody that you look up
to told you this answer and now you're
just kind of parroting it to me and you
haven't really like arrived at that
conclusion so much as somebody else is
kind of stuck you there it's kind of
what I think of yeah I understand that
that's how you perceive them yeah what
I'm confused about is like when I talk
to them they don't perceive themselves
that way and so what I'm trying to
understand is like how are you different
from them because you don't perceive
yourself that way they don't perceive
themselves that way and yet you're
clearly different because like I I
accept that you're different so that's I
I mean that's what I'm operating under
the assumption of because most people
when I like look at their subreddit you
know don't have someone as a pet or
rapist and raise $40,000 yeah very right
so so most people aren't like that so
I'm trying to get a sense and this is
I'm trying to be just as transparent
like I'm trying to get a sense of like
how you understand how people react to
you are you asking me how I get a sense
of understanding of how other people
react to me yes and and that's what we I
mean that's what I've been asking you
about I'm just make trying to make that
oh so sure yeah I mean well in terms of
so the question is really how do I
understand like how do I get an
understanding of how other people view
me yeah like how do you like like so you
you are a divisive figure so let me just
let me just make sure I'm on the same
page with you okay go for it yeah yeah
so the first is that you are a divisive
figure when I asked you why are you a
divisive figure you say that I have a
very independent way of looking at the
world and that most people don't really
appreciate nuance and if you take a
multi-faceted viewpoint that they're
gonna slot you into one bucket or
another
and the reason that you're so divisive
is in this sort of makes perfect sense
right like if you're in the middle and
like you're gonna half the people are
gonna call you a Democrat and half the
people are gonna call you a Republican
which is sort of what we see charity
pedo rapist right sure so you're you're
kind of saying that like because people
slop me into these two slots that's like
that's why I'm perceived the way that I
am and then I ask you okay so then my
but in my experience people you know
that can apply to a lot of people right
so like not everyone it doesn't matter
where you are along the political
spectrum like I tend to be I think
somewhere in the middle of the political
spectrum and that some people think I'm
a Republican and some people think I'm a
Democrat that that sort of applies to a
lot of people that if you if we're
accepting that people slot get bucketed
in two different ways that most people
are gonna get bucketed to the the ends
of the spectrum because most people are
in the middle somewhere right that's
what you're saying I guess yeah kind of
yeah I don't know if we're missing on
this point but like politically they
might be bucketed in the middle which
like is deceptively nuanced but I feel
like the underlying reality is that
usually they're just completely ascribed
to some more fundamental group that
gives them the illusion of being a no
that's kind of what yeah I don't know
this melanocyte yeah yeah I I think I
mean that's about politics and specific
but I think your general point still
stands that that human beings tend to be
binary in the way that they look at
other human beings
yeah that most human beings are not at
either end of any kind of spectrum so as
a result if you take a hundred human
beings who are in the middle and you
show them to another hundred human
beings that those all hundred of those
human beings will be slotted towards
both ends of the spectrum by the hundred
people that they meet okay well okay
maybe this is getting more fundamental
okay maybe my cynicism will start
showing I do think that most people try
to find a group and identify wholly with
that group I don't think that most
people try to be nuanced or have
multiple opinions of things I think they
try to find like a certain group and
stick to it and then inherit all the
yeah yeah that doesn't that shouldn't
apply at all because then what we're
talking about is how people are
perceived by others right
so irrespective of whether I identify as
a Republican or a tea party person or in
a fundamental event or a game or
whatever that I'm still gonna be shunted
into one of two buckets by everyone that
meet because that's how human beings
operate and since I'm somewhere in the
middle
I should be shunted onto both ends of
the spectrum by a hundred random people
and I should have like a while like
people should be calling me Democrats
and Republicans and like that should
happen it doesn't matter whether I
identify with a particular group or I
came up with my own philosophy other
people are gonna still shunt me right
that's what you're sure yeah so then if
that's the case then like why do people
treat you differently from other people
um because everyone's shunting yeah
every one shot maybe maybe because I'm
more like visible in the space and maybe
more like I guess like unapologetic
about what I believe like maybe it's
possible that any twitch streamer that
did politics full-time would also be
hard core divided uh you know between
different people but I mean cuz this is
kind of like I don't know how much you
know about my content I'm sorry like my
main draw is probably political
conversations that's what I'm most
well-known for so that that's probably
why I I'm more divisive in that sense
than other twitch streamers because not
many others do that
full-time maybe yeah so so okay sure so
I think that sort of makes sense right
like you're saying that by virtue of the
kinds of conversations that I engage in
so like let's think about it
scientifically sure so a hundred people
mechant you right or left but the
problem that you're more divisive is
because the hundred people that you're
talking to is a more diverse set than
the hundred people that other people
expose themselves to yeah that's
entirely possible sure that's good yeah
but I mean is that what you think yeah
so I might talk to people that are
literally like literal neo-nazis and I
might also talk to people that are
literal like communists like Stalin
defenders so as a result of
conversations both of these people you
get to see way more device than us in my
opinions that gives everybody a good
reason to absolutely hate me yeah more
so than maybe what the average stream or
even would yeah so do you think that
most people's and and this could be by
virtue of you know my methodologies I
shared which was going on your subreddit
and then I'm sorting by top them all
time and then looking at a few links and
you know my sense is that like no one's
talking about your political beliefs um
it really just depends on what we're
doing at any particular point in time so
like over the past like month and a half
or
two months I've been playing a lot of
League of Legends so there's not much
like politics going on but I would say
like the stuff that I'm most well known
for on the Internet and then my biggest
viewership draw is usually when we're
doing like political content so it's
usually debates I'm having with either
people that defend Stalin Russia or
people that are you know neo-nazis or
whatever like my conversation with
jontron or March shkreli or Lauren
southern like these big like these kind
of like big headliner debates or
whatever are probably my most viewed
content that the people are most
interested in it's when I get the most
viewers four so I get the most
engagement on okay
so um I'm gonna sort of switch gears
thank you for explaining that I'm
getting curious so one of the things
that popped up is this thing that
destiny is a sociopath yeah what does
that mean
I have a very I'm a relatively colder
detached person for most people and it's
people just described me that way
sometimes and then sometimes I rot eclis
refer to it that way myself but what do
you mean by cold or detached um I'm just
not a very like emotional person I guess
like I don't get like I don't like cry a
lot or I don't you know like I'm kind of
like I don't wanna say like I'm a loner
I gotta have friends online a couple
friends that I talk to and I have like a
girlfriend but for the most part they
guide you like really well on my own I
functioned really well without like a
large group of people around me okay
so they call you a sociopath because
what become I don't know I think because
I evaluate things like very coldly yeah
okay yeah so like for instance Ike when
I look at like relationships for
instance whether they're business
whether they're romantic whether they're
friendships like I view everything like
highly transactional that's usually how
I try to like analyze those
relationships to make the most sense of
them yeah so what do you think that
means for someone's life who views as
good maybe to abstract of a question so
let me think about how to phrase it
better just state what my because I just
realized there's an implication to my
question sure and just think about this
so when you when you view relationships
more transactionally what effect does
that have on you
I don't again has any effect I think
it's incredibly positive I think it
gives me a really good view of
relationships but if I'm transparent
about that thought process then it seems
highly manipulative highly unemotional
very cold very detached and people get
very upset if I usually open up about
that yeah so let's start with the first
half of what you said I agree with you
that I think in it it feels really good
so you said something along those lines
you said it's highly positive right and
you said that oh yeah I think it's
really good yeah of course yeah so so
what's really good about it
it gives me well so I so generally I
favor having a greater understanding of
things that are true because I think the
more information I have about a given
situation the better act I can take to
maximise my own you know my own
enjoyment of said situation so the more
information I have the more power I have
to make decisions the benefit me so when
it comes to understanding relationships
where I understand them on a
transactional basis it feels like it
gives me the power to understand what do
I need to do to make this relationship
beneficial for me so when I engage with
another person my thought process is
usually something along lines of like I
want to get X Y or Z out of this person
so whether it's friendship whether it's
um playing games and Lea whether it's
you know some kind of busy relationship
in order to get that I need to make sure
that I am providing some level of value
or worth to that person that makes them
want to you know treat me in kind is
basically how I view it like a very some
people say there's like highly
transactional now personally I view
every single relationship in my life
this way you know I show a certain level
of kindness because I like a person that
I want to receive some reciprocated
kindness
you know I provide some you know level
of consultation or financial support or
business advice or whatever to somebody
in exchange for some sponsorship or
whatever [ __ ] right yeah this is
just basically how I view like all of
these types of relationships yeah yeah
and I think I mean it sounds like it's
very comforting for you to view
relationships in that way in terms of
like it's simple it's clean and you know
what you're getting and it's like and
highly descriptive and predictive yeah I
would say it's descriptive and
predictive sure um can you tell me a
little bit you said all of your
relationships are like this yeah I
believe so yeah and can you you said
that you grew up pretty independently
huh can you tell me a little bit about
what that means um
sure so let's see how we can do this my
parents were very busy growing up and I
was pretty kind of like left on my own
growing up so I kind of developed for
whatever reason I don't know why but I
and I was very very independent growing
up like I did things because I wanted
busy with my mom did a daycare 24/7 and
then my dad did whatever random multi
what do you mean by 24/7
you mean like she had it the daycare
kept people at night um yeah so it was
like a family home daycare I guess okay
so we had kids over it like anywhere
from I think 10 to 14 kids over the
house 24 hours a day seven days a week
okay and what about your dad um he did
multi-level marketing stuff okay random
yeah so what does that have to do with
what is his multi-level marketing like
help me understand so I don't know what
that means in terms of like assumptions
about what that uh about his pyramid you
know I know it means a pyramid scheme
but like yeah like so for example if
someone says yeah my dad was an attorney
versus like my dad drove a school bus
that gives me a sense of like that
parent's availability and like you know
it's an assumption could be wrong mm-hmm
but about like what influenced that
person like how much that person would
have been around
oh yeah the availability of both parents
was like pretty close to zero say for
like a family vacation like something it
was pretty low yeah and what did you do
you remember how you felt about that
growing up yeah I think early on in my
life I don't think I was very happy with
that I think about I made quite a bit
but for whatever reason after time the
feelings just like went away and I
became like more okay like just doing
things on my own yeah can you tell me
like around what age that happened I
wish I could it was before high school
but okay yeah I don't I don't know it's
a change happened before high school
yeah must have yeah like do you remember
being like in elementary school and and
thinking like you were a little bit
unhappy that your parents weren't around
as much yeah like I remember like in
third grade or fourth grade or something
like I would like walk around like
outside and I'd wonder like oh like if I
ran away with my parents like you even
noticed that I'm gone like those kinds
of thoughts which I imagine a pretty you
know
for kids that don't see much of their
parents but by the time like I got to
high school it's like an important thing
I remember in high school is like I
wanted to do music and I you know
decided to pick up the saxophone knowing
that like none of my parents are ever
coming to any of my concerts or anything
like that but I'm okay with that I
picked up music because I really loved
music and that's what I want to do so I
know for sure by the time I hit high
school none of it bothered anymore but
I'm sure that like for varying levels
from like first like sixth grade or
something
it must have bothered me a little bit
because I have memories like that but
for whatever reason the feelings just
kind of like went away okay what do you
think happens when feelings go away
um I mean a lot of things could happen I
mean like the two most common paths I
see is either one you confront them you
get an understanding of them and then
you integrate those feelings so that
you're capable of dealing with it going
forward
another way is you represent what she
did I mean I would like to think so
right yeah I would like to think that
but the alternative is that you
repressed them you pretend that they're
not bothering you but then they end up
manifesting in different ways in your
life later on I try to give like very
I'm trying to give you like very honest
answers yeah yeah yeah like I mean I
would like to think that like none of it
bothers know like I integrated it yeah
yeah yeah yeah so so I'm just a little
bit surprised because I you know like I
think your answers are a hundred percent
I mean I agree with you a hundred
percent and I think like so I think like
I said at the beginning I think my chat
and your chat are both gonna be
disappointed but so I think the thing
that the reason I think you saw me like
raising my eyebrows the thing the reason
you saw surprise in my face is not
because I disagree with your answers
it's just I I'm very surprised to hear
you sly cuz you describe confronting
your feelings processing your feelings
like internalizing them moving past them
metabolizing them like that makes
perfect sense to me and I don't know
many seven-year-olds who do that yeah I
mean like I don't think it happened when
I was seven I think it was more just
like an automated thing that happened
you know before I got to high school yes
that's kind of weird because okay so so
like when you kind of say that like you
confront them and and kind of like
process them and stuff like that that
sounds like a very like active process
right it's like an active mental process
and it's almost like the process that
you describe when someone criticizes you
like it
thought and you analyze it and you kind
of see where it's coming from is it
valid is it invalid and yet when you
talk about what happened to you it
sounds anything but intentional it
sounds because you kind of uses this
language like oh it just kind of like
happened on its own sort of like
happened like automatically like I don't
know like I was this way when I was
growing up and then older like I was
just I was different it was like no
longer a big deal yeah I like the the
reason why I try to be careful my
answers is like if you were asked me
five years ago I would have said all of
it was a very intentional but if I'm
totally honest looking back I don't know
how much was intentional versus how much
was just kind of lucky so like for
instance I can growing up a lot of the
video games I played were Japanese RPGs
the main characters tended to be like
very intelligent which is some you don't
find in a lot of American media and then
they also had like traditional masculine
archetypes as well they tend to be very
independent they tended to help other
artists um like Final Fantasy games
Final Fantasy seven eight nine funding
psychics the Metal Gear Solid games like
I love like snake Oh like yeah growing
up and I think I kind of sort of modeled
my myself off of those people I guess
right because they're heavy early
influences so like the idea of like oh
like being independent is like really
cool like I want to have that I think
being able to be independent is really
cool and then for whatever reason I
wasn't bothered by not getting constant
approval from like friends or family and
then that just kind of worked out so
that's what I mean when I say that like
I think that I kind of automatically
developed it in a healthy way and that I
don't think that I was like miserable
and I repressed it and I used games as a
retreat the depressed sure but I don't
think it's fully honest to say sure that
my ten year old self was like you know I
had the problem yeah yeah so so like
like so you like you grew up like cloud
Cloud Strife you sure yeah well it
would've been like the modeling when I
was it yeah sure so so how do you think
Cloud Strife would respond to parents
being like super unavailable to him
growing up um
oh god my seventh knowledge is being
tested well technically cloud grew up an
orphan although it seemed to me that
cloud dealt with that in a very
unhealthy way because he was very very
rude towards other people and seemed to
always have a chip on his shoulder about
it yeah so yeah I mean I would say cloud
probably would hate that but he dealt
with it in a very unhealthy way yeah
wait what it seemed like he done with
he like always had like problems with
other people it wasn't until like Tifa
put his mind back together in the
lifestream like later on in the game
that he actually developed like a sense
of self and then wanted to do things for
other people and help the party I'm like
everything done or whatever for the game
yeah so so I'm sorry you said that cloud
dealt with it in a poor way it seemed
like it growing up it's like when he was
always like kind of an [ __ ] and a
jerk to people and yeah so like was kind
of a divisive figure had a lot of people
like upset with him no I would say that
he was objectively like an [ __ ] like
and the goals that he had at his life
weird kind of shitty or whatever like he
just wanted to be strong and be a
soldier cuz that's what all the cool
people whatever and then yeah yeah and
you kind of model to yourself after him
aspects of my character are aspects of
my personality after those types of
people out imagine yeah yeah so like I
don't I can't envision cloud ever being
upset with his parents for dropping off
it and dropping him off at an orphanage
um yeah I guess later in life probably
not sure yeah yeah I mean it almost
sounds like you kind of grew up almost
like an orphan in some ways um that's a
really dramatic way of putting it I
guess in some ways yeah it absolutely is
it's hyperbole sure yeah what do you
think about that I
don't have strong feelings about it one
way or another I mean how did you grow
up you know I put a lot of video games
yeah yeah so it sounds like your parents
weren't around I mean they were they
were around I've got to be really
responsible cuz I was like some guy is
listen to this who's a literal [ __ ]
orphan who's like hating me for saying
this cuz I did it like my mom and dad
like absolutely love me like no
questions asked like I'm pretty sure
they would like if I came out as like um
like cuz my mom always tells me she
loves me she's like always excited for
you know she doesn't have anything mean
to say about me she's always excited for
what I do with my streaming stuff if I
call and talk to my parents they're
always excited to talk to me they've
never liked that we had a lot of
problems and I became an atheist in high
school but like I've never gotten the
feeling that my parents hate me ever and
my mom expressions like so great yeah my
mom says a lot of regret over not taking
a more active role in my life growing up
it's something that like makes her
really sad so how do you feel about that
um my parents are are insanely [ __ ]
conservative so I'm kind of grateful for
it
yeah like I kind of worried if I would
have grown up to be more like my parents
if I would have ran into a lot of
problems like it sounds kind of shitty
to say to my mom and I love her to death
but like the independence that I got
from them has equipped me for I mean for
this job if nothing else holy [ __ ] more
than anything else that I could have
learned from them individually yeah so I
mean at all I mean thank God that you
they didn't have time for you yeah kind
of yeah man if my mother saw this I love
your mom so much yeah I think I love
your mom yeah she loves you and I think
it's a very strange thing for a person
to say I'm really grateful that my
parents didn't have time for me yeah
100% holy [ __ ] I think that the sense of
Independence that I got growing up is my
most valuable asset and it's something
that I think yeah is so important to me
and I think that that makes perfect
logical sense I'm just trying to think
about like the alternative right so if
you if you aren't grateful to your
parents for not having time to you how
would you feel um that's a hard one I
mean these manifests of so many
different ways I mean some people spend
their lives like kind of like seeking
the like a replacement for a parent like
maybe you go and look for a girl that
resembles somebody that would take care
of you and that's the kind of thing
you're after or maybe you look for
somebody
like give you constant after my drop I'm
not talking about like some weird
psychological thing down the road I'm
just saying like if you're eight years
old and your your mom is busy taking
care of like eight other kids mm-hmm
like how do you think that kid feels
like a like a normal kid or like near
our normal kid um you it seems like a
lot of people get really resentful other
parents if they don't paid enough
attention to them so yeah I imagine you
were you were a normal kid back then
right you started to become a non normal
kid later when you had your
transformation which happens sometimes
I mean that's what you're telling me my
hardest name yeah you used to you used
to have some of those feelings of
feeling like neglected or lonely or
whatever from your parents and then like
something happened sometime around the
middle school years you started to
really like focus on being more like
cloud and there's these other like male
role models who were like emotionally
suppressing or like focused on self
growth and independent and self-reliant
and then you kind of became the
self-reliant human being that who's all
of their relationships are transactional
and has like kind of a lack of emotional
connection with others uh-huh right
until you enter the live stream which
will see you if and when that happens
but sure right yeah I yeah I think so
yeah yeah yeah
so I mean it yeah so real quick just to
be very clear I try to be brutally
honest with with how I do myself I can
tell you very clearly like why I thought
the things that I did from like probably
16 17 years onward it's a lot harder for
me to give you resolute answers about
like my particular state of mind or high
FL for something that's that's why it
feels like I'm giving you a wishy-washy
answer gonna try to avoid answering
something that's just trying to be
honest like I don't know like 100
percent maybe I was a little I'm not
getting the perspective that you're
wishy-washy at all in fact I think it
answers are very very clear okay
very kind of you clearly yeah yeah why
do you think your answers are
wishy-washy well cuz sometimes in people
it feels like sometimes people want more
exact answers sometimes and if I give an
answer with them it's it's like a habit
that I've gotten into from debating so
many people like for instance like my
girlfriend might ask something like um
this sounds really bad but she was like
do you think we'll still be together in
a year
and my answer that was always maybe like
I mean I hope so we should be but like I
can't sound like with 100% certainty
because you might go [ __ ] crazy I
don't know I like it so like I tend to
answer like every question there's
nothing to read into there sorry I try
to you know what I'm trying to read into
is like like like you when I'm asking
when we're talking about your and my
interaction you have this tendency to
talk about what feels to me to be like
completely irrelevant examples sure like
you can just you offer a lot of examples
like I'm just curious like why you think
that I think that your answers are
unclear because you're you're you know
you're a clear spoken guy I know you're
clear spoken guy I've asked you several
times over the course of like the last
half hour or 45 minutes if this is what
you believe it seems like we're on the
same page I think yeah I'm probably
honestly because I'm so used to speaking
to chat that it's this is more like a
public experience so I guess I'm trying
to clarify partially for that as well
but I'll try to focus more on just that
and ignore like outside clarifications
because I think you're understanding
most of what I'm saying I'm just I'm
still in the habit of like over
clarifying everything I say like with
the orphan thing earlier for instance to
make sure that people don't think that I
have the understanding that I'm like an
actual orphan because I know that would
like to spend a lot of whatever be like
okay I'll try to be more like just one
so so let's just no I mean that's I
think it's you know it's interesting
that the wishy-washy the reason for the
wishy-washy nough supper ception where
she washing is seems to be also changing
like at first it was about because
sometimes your ambiguous and you want to
clarify things and use the example of
your girlfriend and when I say our I
don't think that's the case then you say
it's like it's because of chat and I'm
trying to make sure that chad
understands and i'm half talking to them
so it seems like there are a lot of
reasons why i want to clarify
yeah for sure yeah okay okay so can you
tell me a little bit about i mean do you
have memories of like when you were
young and like times that you got upset
[Music]
times that I kind of sound I was young
yeah anything saying oh yeah of course
some stuff does I had a very strange
relationship with my with my grandma I
spent a lot of time
I swear to God my growing up there's
like just really weird [ __ ]
but so my family that okay my grandma
but for the most part my life is pretty
good okay my grandma is very okay
she had weird problems she like she
would buy a dog and she would like kill
it in like a year and she did this like
[ __ ] 20 times I don't know why I'm
where she would she would basically she
they go to the pound she get a dog and
she would carry it for about six to
twelve months and then she would say
like oh it's sick I need to go put it
down and I don't want to give it to
somebody else cuz I think it might be
hurt or whatever and I remember that
when I was when I was pretty young maybe
around like fifth grade I think she did
this to two dogs that me and my little
sister were like very attached to I
remember
obviously being incredibly upset when
that happened cuz they were like my two
dogs that I like the most but then after
that I kind of stopped caring so much
about each individual dog because I knew
that it was it had like a 12 month timer
on it basically yeah that's interesting
so so you used to care about things and
then what did you what did you learn
sounds like you learned something um I
guess we're trying to say that I learned
not to get attached to anything or I
mean in this particular saying yeah like
you used to form emotional attachments
with like living organisms and then you
sort of realize that forming attachments
with living organisms leads to pain and
so you better learn how to like not care
about the dog anymore um yeah I guess we
could say that sure yeah
and what about with your parents never
did anything on the level of like doing
it of course of course yeah I mean do
you remember sort of times actually let
me ask you kind of a different question
so do you remember times that like does
anything stick out let's say like before
seventh grade about when your parents
were super proud of you
but you sort of really did feel like
they made time or when did they make
time for you let's put it that way I
don't think so I remember there was one
time I was in a hotel and I made a
reference to something that I'd read
online that where I said like oh look
like they have mirrors in the hotel and
that makes the room look bigger and my
dad I actually remember this comment for
my entire life my I said wow you're real
smart kid and I think that's the only
time he's ever assessing to me like that
and I think I actually felt like really
good when I heard that but otherwise I
don't think they typically my mom like
always gives compliments so they don't
really mean anything to me
I'm like showers near that side whatever
yeah can you remember a time where they
made time for you um yeah we went back
so before I was like I think before I
was my timelines are so bad before I was
like 14 or 15 mom we had like a very
upper middle-class lifestyle when my mom
was doing the daycare and we would go
like on like every year every other year
we would take like a family vacation to
like Disney World or whatever we would
do stuff like that so I mean I would say
that was like making time for me yeah
hmm do you ever remember them doing
things outside of the norm like periods
where you were either really good or
really bad and they sort of like treated
you differently because of it um I don't
think so the the worst things that I
probably did growing up where I was very
antagonistic towards my sister which
bothered the [ __ ] out of my mom a dad
quite a bit I think that's pretty normal
for siblings very humble like yeah but
other than that no I think can you tell
me about your sister um she's just like
my little sister
okay what's your like I don't really
talk to any my family much I just don't
it's not that kind of person I guess we
should it sounds like they didn't talk
to you much um no that's not true they
my mom and dad make an effort to reach
out I try to talk to my mom like at
least once what about God loves you a
lot it sounds like she's very excited
and happy for your success it sounds
like you know on the occasions that you
all do interact she's very supportive
and loves you a lot and you love her and
at the same time it also sounds like
they kind of haven't been a part of your
life in a very like day-to-day kind of
chitchat share
experiences with Ferb basically your
entire life yeah my mom regrets it but I
mean I yeah yeah yeah I mean I good for
you it's always been normal
yeah for sure it's been normal to have
so earlier used a word transactional
would you say that your relationships
with your parents were transactional
when you were growing up um I don't
think it would have viewed relationships
like that back then and then those are
either yeah what do you think now like
I'm just trying to put myself so I have
two kids and I'm just trying to put
myself of like what the [ __ ] would my
relationship with my children be like if
there were eight other kids at home and
I would think that it would be like
quite businesslike because I don't have
time to like read them a story sure I'd
so like like meals would be sort of like
an assembly line like your house is a
very has a very assembly line feel to me
yeah there was a nap time there was a
feeding time there was a time when a
teacher came oh yeah and like whether
what you felt like or what your needs
were a moment-to-moment we're sort of
like completely swept under the but like
just just swept under the just the
simple need of like making the reigns
the trains run on time I can autumn and
and so you know and I I think it sounds
like that used to upset you but at some
point you sort of figured out that like
me being upset doesn't actually do me
any good yeah I guess so
yeah and so you started to like treat
yourself very independently you started
to treat people pretty transactionally
because having kind of like an emotional
relationship or an emotional investment
in a situation that is not going to
change is like completely idiotic
and that essentially essentially like
emotions are just gonna lead to
suffering when they lead to
relationships which is because the only
thing that you can really count on the
only thing that you can rely on and the
only thing that has predictive value for
making a change is sort of a
transactional selfish sort of
perspective to relationships because you
can count on other people's
self-interest but if you love them and
they love you that doesn't count for
[ __ ] yeah 100 percent make sense man
yeah makes
perfect sense sure any thoughts about
what I just said I'm not that gets
descriptive of how I view the world like
pretty well so one of the reasons why I
went into music yeah I always considered
a realing point to have a hobby that I
couldn't draw on my own without having
to rely on any other person to be there
and then yeah I'm very aware that like
any relationship I'm in I try to make
sure that it's as beneficial for the
other person as it needs to be for them
to maintain the relationship yeah it's
pretty much my outlook on really ships
in general yeah yeah and and you think
you okay so let me just stop for a
second let me think yeah sure destiny do
you have any thoughts about the way in
which I'm phrasing things are you
detecting any implications in my words
do you have any mom what I'm saying or
you think I can read it to it that way
but I didn't sound like you have the
same type of judgmental implications
that I would expect a person to so yeah
and what kind of judgmental implications
of that for those um generally that this
way of thinking is either autistic or
sociopathic that it misses a lot of the
underlying important aspects of human
interactions in it no no no I think I
think that this this way of interacting
I think is learned adaptive and vital
for survival sure I I I'm sorry just to
be clear I don't think you're thinking
about I'm saying that's what a lot of
people yeah and I'm telling you what I
think which is that this way of
approaching the world is adaptive
learned and vital for survival yeah I
mean obviously I would agree yeah why do
you agree with that well I mean I would
have to agree that it's adaptive because
it seems like it adapted to the
environment I had growing up it seems
key for survival because I think it's
got me like to great accomplishments in
terms of my career and everything and
then it's learned obviously because I I
think must be everything learned to him
yeah yeah so destiny I'm gonna kind of
give you and maybe you've sort of
figured out my punchline but I think you
know I think the way you feel makes
perfect sense so I think this is this is
what I understand this is my running
hypothesis for how life shaped you to be
the way that you are so I think that
early on you experienced a lot of
emotions like a kid normally one and
that your life was just structured in
such a way where your emotions were your
emotional needs were probably
not met because they couldn't be met
because your parents were too busy and I
think that hurt you for a while and I
think that you did what most children or
young adults do which is adapt to the
situation but I I think unfortunately
most of those adaptations are not like
the challenging processing metabolising
most of them are suppression so yeah for
sure and and that since you basically
had parents who are not it's not that
they didn't love you it's just like the
circumstances made it so that they could
not meet your emotional needs and so I
think early on somewhere along the way
you probably had and you remember some
things you don't remember others but I
think the grandmother example is a prime
example you learned the very important
lesson that emotions are a [ __ ] waste
of time and that they just need to be
removed in whatever way they can right
so like my personal point of view yeah
yeah I'm talking I'm talking about I'm
talking about this like how you're the
Chum that the mind of your child self
evolved and they were like let's just
remove emotions from the equation
because as long as emotions are there we
get hurt and then over time you started
to discover that like when you remove
emotions from the equation that that
relationships become transactional right
because that's what happens I think the
real challenge is that now at this point
the reason that you don't feel emotions
is because you essentially are
suppressing them because that's
something that's that's like that
concrete was pretty it was laid down
when you were a kid and you have
everything in your life sort of points
to that and now the real challenge is
that your current worldview is so
adaptive that the possibility of like
Rhian gauging with your emotions sort of
like changes everything that you believe
in everything that you've built your
life around so it's almost even further
adaptive to not explore that part or not
even question that because that [ __ ] has
been buried it's like nuclear waste that
got buried like you buried that [ __ ] the
second time that dog died and you were
like okay these are emotions and I think
that your brain is human so that you
have the amygdala and the limbic system
and that you're capable of feeling
emotion
that you feel sadness and you feel joy
but at the end of the day like those are
sort of relatively temporary
fluctuations that you experience like
those parts of your brain are active but
emotionally you you sort of don't have
that shits like buried because you
learned how to bury it because that's
what you needed to do and I think had
you done this later then it would make
more sense for this to be sort of like a
metabolism or digestion but that
essentially since it happened so young
it was sort of like a it was like a
reflexive protective response cuz that's
what kids do sure what do you think
about that I don't agree that at all
I've spent a great deal of time I think
about a year or two ago kind of
reflecting on kind of like the cold way
that I approach people and it's
something that I revisit like like quite
a bit you know I think about it every
now and then where I kind of wonder like
typically totally axing certain things
when your life is not good because
usually it's possible to engage with
them in a healthy manner such that you
limit the downsides and capitalize on
the upside so we're talking about like
emotional relationships here are being
more emotional with people I wonder
sometimes if there were like potential
upsides that I might be missing they
don't engage with people in that way I
just have a hard time coming up with
that yeah yeah so I don't think it's
about upsides so I think your strategy
has if we're talking about making a
probabilistic bet I think your strategy
has more upsides I just think it's
incomplete right so like exactly like I
could I could integrate some type of
emotional experience into my current
existence in a healthy and responsible
way using all of my prior adaptations
whatever to evaluate of those emotional
relationships are healthy or not I
wonder if that's something that I should
do I guess just so far I just haven't
felt the need for it because I don't
think there is a need so I think the
question is so this is not really a
great analogy but I think essentially
like you're going through life
colorblind and we sort of think about
color as being better than this so
there's like a value judgment there that
I don't necessarily agree with but that
there's there's like if you look at like
all these other people out there they're
operating with a particular like sense
that you just sort of don't have urge
and it's not that you're like lack you
lack emotions entirely it's just that
like your your perception of color it's
it's like dark outside so
you know your rods and cones like you
can still see some variants of color but
the amount of color saturation that you
get has a lot to do with the overall
ambient level of light and and I think
my sense of you is that you're someone
who's like in a low ambient level of
light so you do experience emotions but
you just don't experience the full range
and then the question from your
perspective is like is it worth it for
me to turn the lights on because if I
turn the lights on I'm gonna experience
a whole range of things and those may
not necessarily be good which is
absolutely correct I think the question
is whether you want to experience a
wider range of things than what you're
experiencing now yeah and that's kind of
the that's always been the central
question is like if I am missing out on
something you know is it worth it to
open myself up to those experiences
knowing that some might be better than
I've ever felt before and some might be
worse than I've ever felt before is that
something that's worth exploring and I
guess like so far I mean like I feel
like I'm pretty uniquely situated in
terms of my mental state of my job and I
feel like I have like such a high when I
say uniquely situated I mean that like I
feel like I'm uniquely equipped with my
level of Independence to deal with the
amount of negative feedback I got for
instance and I'm kind of worried if I
start trying to change up like too many
things like is that experience going to
change such that either it makes me
unsuited for this job or I lose like my
current level of what I would considered
to be like very high very content like
mental state is that something that I'm
willing to risk to try to experience a
wider array of emotions I guess how do
you feel about that um well know that
that's I guess like currently I feel I
feel like I get all of the love and
attention I need from people that I have
relationships with however transactional
they may be and then I also feel like I
mean you've been talking to streamers
holy [ __ ] every streamer is insanely
depressed and has I don't know how many
streamers you've gone through so far but
like every streamer that I know has
personally had at least one major
breakdown related to you know like
dealing with feedback and stuff and I've
never dealt with these problems and I
don't know if like becoming a more
emotional person okay so that would make
me more vulnerable to those types of
things absolutely would yeah yeah so I
mean I think you know using some some
video game terminology I think the main
question is whether you want to explore
so you have you have carved out a pretty
nice niche in your own world in terms of
I don't mean like success externally
just in terms of like the way
you interact with the world and there's
there's a world beyond that and so far I
think it can makes complete logical
sense that going outside of the known is
not really a good bet it's just about
your degree of adventurousness it's
about your degree of tolerating risk
it's about whether you're willing to
explore an aspect of life that I think
will make your life
we're not necessarily better but yeah
like richer right cuz we're talking
about other shades of cold we're talking
about experiences that other humans
don't have for another good example is
like the decision to have kids or not
have kids which i think is a life
transformative I mean it was for me not
to say that's better or worse it just
completely changes the [ __ ] ballgame
okay sign of that yeah yeah I mean so so
I mean I mean I think it changes
something in my mind I don't know that
it's actually relevant I have more of an
emotional reaction to that and it
include it incorporates more assumptions
but I don't I mean I think that most of
your emotions are were actively
suppressed in a very what what's called
an in kind of like an insecure
attachment growing up which is something
you can google but there's something
called attachment theory which sort of
talks a little bit about like how
children experience emotions and how
they like understand the world and that
you've essentially created like this
adaptive mechanism which by the way like
now getting to kind of like that the end
point so I don't think that your logical
argument for why you're such a divisive
figure sort of makes sense which is sort
of what I was implying because I don't
think it's because they see multiple
facets of you I think it's because they
they're picking up on something on this
realm which like makes people deeply
unsettled and makes them dislike you
you're just disliked and arguable and
also on the flip side liked by more like
more people than the average person I
don't think that's just because of the
political stuff you engage in although
that's a very good variable in the
equation I think it makes a lot of sense
I don't think many people expose
themselves to the variety of opinion
that you do primarily because you do
have this insulating armor right like
you can see you can expose yourself to
like more things because you're
kind of emotionally protected which
other people don't do so I think that
has a lot to do with it but I think
there's something there's something
visceral about people's and I think if
you stop and think about that I would
really be surprised if you disagree with
us there's some 100 centigrade one
there's something visceral so all this
stuff about like you know people are
like binary and they judge you this way
and this like I think that's fine but I
don't think it's about the political
spectrum I think it's visceral there's
something about you that like sets
people off in like a weird way and it
almost reminds me of something called
the uncanny valley which is this this
you're familiar the uncanny valley yeah
it's almost like uncanny valley level
which is sort of this idea that like if
we human beings for people who aren't
familiar with this concept you want
explain it yeah basically something is
not quite human but it's very very close
but that very small amount of not quite
human is so much more crazy and weird
and quite discomforting than if it was
just completely fake all together
yeah and so I mean I'm not saying that
that's what's it's kind of like a unfair
characterization or analogy I'm not
saying that you're not human but there
is something incredibly visceral and
emotional to people's from what I could
see initially there's something
incredibly visceral and emotional to
people's responses to you and I think
they're picking up on something and like
a flea watch this YouTube video about
someone who's like trying to convince
you with value of emotions and it was
like the guy didn't know what the [ __ ]
he was talking it up and I'm sorry for
being judgmental I didn't know let me
put real Oh me rephrase I didn't
understand what he was trying to say or
in my mind he didn't make it convinced I
think I actually I'm almost positive I
know exactly you're talking about but I
think what he was trying in a less
formal way to get what you were saying
is like maybe it's worth exploring like
some level of emotional attachment
because there might be some good there
that you're missing out completely by
shutting yourself from it or whatever
yeah I don't know anyway so being
charitable yeah but I mean I think the
destiny here like so here's what I'll
kind of leave you with do you have
questions by the way I'm saying leave
you with it yeah I mean I don't I mean I
don't think so what questions am I
supposed to have so here's what I'll
offer you I I don't know because I
wasn't sure if you were gonna be asking
me questions or I was gonna be asking
you questions it seemed like this was
like I was enjoying this seemed like you
were enjoying it yeah I think that you
know if it's um
you decide that you do want to explore
your emotional side then I'm happy to
have another conversation about that
I actually don't know how that's gonna
go like I really don't because this [ __ ]
seems pretty dick buried to me um at the
same time I do think that here's what I
do believe if you decide to explore it
because this has been my experience with
other people is that the armor that
you've essentially put on yourself is
something that is so ingrained that
you'll be able to like put that back on
like you can unequip it and you can
react with it so my experience for
people who learn habitually how to do
something is even if they learn how to
like stop doing it it's not like the
armor gets destroyed it just gets
unequipped and then you can react with
it and so I don't think I I think in my
my instinct tells me that if you were to
get connected to your emotions that the
net would be positive because generally
speaking in the work that I do I find
that exploring just about anything and
understanding yourself deeper and better
and having a greater experience of
yourself is almost always an
overwhelmingly positive experience sure
okay you're basically saying it's not
going to like it revocable changed me in
a way I don't think so because you know
that yeah I mean I think it could there
could be like rough patches here there
but I would put it like scientifically
that your neurons have been like
hard-coded in a non-emotional
transactional non empathic kind of state
and that you know like like this is this
something that's learned so it's not
like in the same way that like if you
start swimming you don't forget how to
learn how to ride a bike
it's just like if you're in the water
you're gonna swim and if you're on a
bike you're on a bike that's been my
experience
sure okay um yeah I only bring this up
bad cuz people are spending about it any
opinions but psychedelic drugs why the
[ __ ] this is the only question that
people ever ask me I've asked this
question like a thousand times
uh-huh okay so so this is what I'll say
so as a psychiatrist there are some
luminary studies which show that are
very promising that these psychedelics
some psychedelic compounds can have
positive effects on your mental health
yeah I believe mean in terms of like a
clinical setting I mean more of like I
don't want to say just recreational but
not like in a like treating like
depressive disorders forever but like in
like utilizing them to gain some insight
into your life we'd like a monster like
LSD or shroom trip or something to have
any thoughts so I don't advocate for
that and the reason is very simple so
one of my teachers so the first thing to
understand is that psychedelics can only
do what your brain is capable of doing
sure right so like I want everyone to
understand this because this is an
important point chemical compounds go
and activate existing brain machinery in
new ways or not even new ways but they
just activate the machinery that's
already there right so like for example
marijuana is a cannabinoid and gives us
a sense of like like relaxation or
whatever's there they're different
compounds in marijuana but we also have
endocannabinoids which when it comes to
like video games and habit circuitry we
release a lot of like so when you get
addicted to video games when you're
playing a video game like every day all
day at that point you're not even
getting like rewards it's not even
dopaminergic its cannabinoid at that
point which is why I like gamers have so
many so you're when you develop a habit
it's no longer dopamine that governs it
it's actually an endocannabinoid that
governs like the performance of habits
and endocannabinoids the reason that
habits are so easy to do is because they
don't require motivation and in turn
like gamers have a problem with
motivation because they have
endocannabinoids that are like floating
around in the brain like all the time so
it's kind of like they're sort of like
kind of chilled out or they're a
motivated my point here is that you can
smoke marijuana but like marijuana is
activating all of these endogenous like
circuitry's and LSD and things like that
are exactly the same so they activate
your brain in ways that we don't
normally activate it but that
essentially if you talk to people who do
psychedelics and you talk to people who
meditate a lot and you talk about and
you also talk about people who
dissociate during trauma there's a
remarkable amount of similarity between
these three experiences so you talked
about like like you know
a dissolution of the self people feel
connected it's the same way people feel
when they meditate sometimes and you can
have very powerful spiritual experiences
through meditation and so my my teacher
once told me that you know if you really
want to like understand like kind of the
nature of self and the boundaries of
reality and all this [ __ ]
meditation those kinds of things should
be avoided for a couple of reasons one
is that when you do that and then you
try to meditate it creates an
expectation of an experience that is
very difficult for meditation to live up
to and makes it harder to continue to
meditate the other way to think about it
is that I kind of think about like
climbing to the top of Mount Kilimanjaro
like you can take it you can take LSD
which is like getting in a helicopter
and flying to the top of the mountain
the view that you get is the same as if
you hiked one is way easier one is way
harder view is equally grand the problem
is that if you've trained yourself too
high to climb to the top of Mount
Kilimanjaro you're in a better state to
climb higher and with LSD or other
compounds you have no control over the
direction or where you land you just
like it's just you know like getting in
the chopper and the pilot decides I'm
gonna take you here I'm gonna take you
here I'm gonna take you here so I don't
advocate for the use of psychedelics if
you really want to understand like
yourself in the nature of reality
because I think it's sort of a crutch
that gets you it's like a cheat code
that kind of gets you to like a pretty
important milestone which people love
and find invigorating but if you really
want to go all the way you shouldn't use
meditation instead okay okay I got a
really big fight over yesterday I agree
100% I'm always really skeptical of
people that say that psychedelics are
good tool to solve problems it always
seemed like a substitution for your
inability to kind of deal with problems
without having to be hi-spec to do it so
I mean it is a substitution which is
what most medications are right so like
I'm like if we think about so I think
that they can have a role in treatment
because those people so someone who's
super depressed or has been through a
lot of trauma they may not have the time
circumstance or wherewithal to like
spend a year in India like meditating so
like psychedelics can potentially be
helpful yeah a band-aids aren't bad
they're just not optimal when it comes
to having something right yeah sure okay
other questions do you have questions
why why did you ask me to explain why
did you ask me to explain the uncanny
valley it was a reason for that
no just because I get two reasons one is
when people ask questions or just in
general I if there's something that the
person that I'm talking to can explain I
default to having them explain it okay
for a couple of reasons one is I like to
hear other people's explanations of it
and the second is I I don't want to talk
all the time okay gotcha
cool I was just curious um okay um I
died there's like a million random
things from chat but I don't know if you
don't have any other like major things
but you want to talk about I don't need
me to say this obviously especially I
don't know if you are you practicing in
terms with you like a license like okay
yeah I've tried like therapy before I'm
gonna be totally honest there's only one
person and oh my god was it a horrible
waste of time
although understanding that yeah you're
supposed to shop around for therapy I
don't think I don't think he said
anything here that I disagreed with that
i thought was stupid or like totally
like dumb like meandering conjecture
which i hear from a lot of people that
aren't necessarily like psychiatrists
but like therapy ask people sometimes it
feels like they're just looking for
opportunities to insert their own
narratives into whatever story you tell
them they're trying to make the pieces
fit you do a really good job at i think
of understanding what I'm saying and
then rephrasing that and then presenting
it to me in a way that it's like makes
sense and it's like a complete story I
thank you so destiny the one thing that
I think may that I would like you to
take away from this because I believe
this is where we disagreed yes that I
don't think that you're emotional I
think you're emotionally suppressing and
I don't think I didn't get the sense at
the beginning of our our talk together
that you thought that but I do believe
that um I would probably agree I think
maybe there might be like I don't think
I would have disagreed might be more of
a semantic than anything
I mean obvi clearly unless I am
literally inhuman I must be suppressing
my emotions to some extent like you said
I have an amygdala I have a limbic
system like I can't not have these
things yeah so some level of learned
suppression I guess when I think of
suppression
I'm sorry when I speak is there there's
so many implication by every word
usually when somebody uses the word
suppression there's a whole lot of
negative baggage and other ways of that
manifest in your life and in really
detrimental ways that I don't think i
exhibit those behaviors but I did I
would have to agree well it's probably
some level surprise I'm not so sure
about that right because we have some
evidence that you have a track record
for disrupting a lot of other people's
lives like in terms of like the way that
they respond to you so I think that sure
I don't know if I would necessarily
agree that's a bad thing though I think
to some of this I think it's sure I
think I think the other thing that's
that's kind of like tricky here is that
I think you're placing yeah okay but I
mean III think that that that could be
causing problems in your and I think
actually there's a decent chance that it
will cause problems in your
relationships because your relationships
are very transactional
yeah right so yeah the sewing that's
come up a lot young yeah and and so I
think the problem here is that when you
are in a transactional relationship with
someone who doesn't view relationships
same way it's very is gonna have a tough
time of course yeah and generally
speaking I do as a personal value
judgment I mean hopefully these words
don't bite me in the ass but I have some
relationships that are not transactional
in fact I would say that most of the
relationships that I have are not
transactional and that serves me very
well okay okay put in mine when I
revisit this thought to myself up maybe
I'll push harder in that direction sure
yeah cool
okay cool well hey listen I really
appreciate the conversation yeah
likewise any other final things that
nope nope okay well hey listen I really
pushed the conversation if there's
anything ever in particular that comes
up that I don't know people like always
bother me to talk to you not that it's a
bother to talk to you but if you go away
then a lot of online I don't know if
you've gotten this yet from twitch by
the way that a lot of these
conversations happen is usually both fan
bases start firing their shots in the
direction of the other fanbase in order
to get the two people to come together
so if people I guess keep poking me to
pick your brain about a particular topic
or likewise whatever we can chat again
if you're interested
sure and okay I know that sometimes I
mean I I didn't give you an opportunity
to that like asked me questions and
stuff like that so if you I'm not saying
you short or that you want to but you
know I'm open to that about like the the
I've heard a lot of like org
stories in terms of starting off as like
a spiritual hindu person i don't know
how much of this is true versus not true
for your development i can do that in
five minutes yeah go for it hit me up
i'm curious yeah so i grew up playing a
lot of [ __ ] video games uh-huh and
then did okay in high school started
college was failing out of college my
parents kind of took me aside after
trying everything else from yelling and
punishing and all that kind of stuff and
my dad was like look this is not working
out like we got to do something and so
then I was like yeah I agree so it felt
like super antagonistic early on but
then it sort of felt like we were
problem-solving together and so he's
like you got to go to India and I said
[ __ ] it okay so I went to India I stayed
at an ashram which is sort of like a
monastery I studied yoga and meditation
a little bit of Ayurveda for a period of
about three months and then decided I
wanted to become a monk so went to my
teachers and I said hey I want to become
a monk I'm not interested in the
material life they said fantastic real
great as so yeah we understand we are
what so I understand when you say monk
what does how does that actually mean so
that means take some yes so in the Hindu
tradition but but this distribution as
well there are four stages of life so
the first stage is student the second
stage is a householder the third stage
is transitionary in the fourth stage is
to like let go of your material
attachments slash meditate slash devote
yourself to God if you believe in that
kind of thing and so what I said is I
want to forego a material life and focus
on spiritual development and like
realizing my true self which is the goal
of a lot of meditative practices is
something called moksha or enlightenment
or liberation so I wanted to devote
myself to that that was gonna be my
full-time job they said that's a
fantastic idea you'd be great at it but
finish your school get a doctoral degree
and come back when you're 30 and if you
still want to do it we'll take you so
the place that I studied was run by so
the head of the ashram was actually a
quantum physicist like other teachers of
mine were like like neuroscientists and
things like that and they'd all taken
son yeah so they'd become monks but they
believed in sort of getting like a
worldly education first in understanding
science and then kind of following a
spiritual path and so turned out that
their decision was a great one because I
went back to the US and then traveled
back and forth from the u.s. to India
for about seven years with the goal of
coming a monk but in that time met my
wife fell in love got confused and then
decided ultimately that becoming a monk
was about ego that I couldn't cut it in
the real world
and that like it was a very if I'd said
like oh I'm like the real world isn't
for me because I'm bad at it and I
thought of all of the reasons why
becoming a monk was like a fantastic
idea right because like there's so many
positives about it there's so many
logical reasons that it's good but at
the root of it the problem was ego which
by the way I think could apply to you
and your view of emotions as well um a
form of post hoc rationalization you
have like an end goal and you're just
gonna do whatever you can to get to it
basically yeah without really yeah sure
yeah so I think you have a potentially a
subtle ego but I don't think your ego is
generally very large sure but ultimately
that that it was really about ego and
that living a spiritual life has nothing
to do with wearing robes or like you
know being in a particular location that
spirituality is all internal it's like
internal struggles it has nothing to do
with what you wear what you eat or you
know whether you walk around with prayer
beads or whatever so decided to
ultimately live life and ended up doing
neuroscience research for a couple of
years went to med school became a
psychiatrist and now I incorporate a lot
of meditation yoga Eastern principles
into like clinical practice I do a lot
of stuff for professional athletes
performance enhancement kind of stuff
some eSports orgs and that's kind of
where I where I am financier yeah I
think so yeah can I am if you have to go
to any time you can always tell me go
for it
if I were to ask you the question do you
feel like we've made a lot of progress
as a civilization over the past like 50
to 100 years specifically like in the
Western world or ever I'll even say more
specifically in the United States would
you agree or disagree with that how
would you measure that generally I would
agree but it depends on how you're
defining progress yeah that's the
question I guess I'm curious how you
would define that it's something I've
thought about a lot recently I mean so I
think progress has different facets so
if you look at something like so you
know I sometimes get into discussions
with like my mom for example and and not
just my mom but there's a general idea
that boomers like myself things that
think that things used to be better in
the past
and that the world has become more
materialistic it's become like more
vapid I do think for example that mental
health is on the rise and I think that
has a lot to do with social media but
also like infant mortalities like way
[ __ ] down you know like the the norm
for people growing up like a hundred or
150 years ago is that multiple of their
children would die yeah and there's I
mean I just think that that's progress
like okay I think that yeah so I think
in general we made progress and I think
that the challenges of any given point
in time continue to evolve and change
and that the the primary challenges
right now tend to be around ego
materialism and like a disconnection
from self okay yeah I think I agree with
that I think that I'm going the other
way I'd put it is that the challenge is
let's say 150 years ago we're lower on
Maslow's hierarchy of needs and now
we're getting closer to the the
challenges being like at the top of
Maslow's hierarchy of needs oh I'm not
sure if I agree with that my I'll just
that my general thought on this and then
you can excuse me it feels like when we
measure progress it feels like we we
really like quantifiable stuff so when
we talk about like medical advancements
like vaccine rates infant mortality
graduation graduation rates median
income that we look at that but it
almost feels like we have I'm only
thirty years old but even in my lifetime
it feels like we never measure progress
in terms of like how we view ourselves
how we maintain our personal
relationships how many friendships we
have and it feels like a lot of people
miss that and that around like it feels
strange that like in all of this
technological I'm sorry I'm 31 years old
my birthday was four years ago it feels
like an in the in the wake of like all
of this like technological and in
biological medical advancement
everything somehow like it feels like as
a society people have totally missed the
self development thing and then in some
ways that's even regressing and I mean
self development was like no but III
agree with you but I don't think it's
regressing because when you're dying of
Cholera like feeling fulfilled is
irrelevant
do you think that people and this isn't
strong disagrees I'm just curious do you
think that people that lived have you
ever heard the theory that like the
hunter-gatherer lifestyle that those
people were probably like incredibly
fulfilled and very happy yeah those
people yeah do you think that anything
that is possible that people like a
hundred years ago that had no internet
well I won't go to a honey years ago to
like world war one stuff but like
outside of like Wars and stuff any
people generally were more fulfilled in
life and less depressed and and felt
better about themselves or no so this is
gonna be a little bit strange but I
think that this is exactly like what I
in my own life I sort of came to this
realization that happiness is actually
independent of like so the conciliar and
I asked you like would you say that the
contentment that you feel is independent
of emotion yeah right so I think that
like this is something that the Yogi's
understood really well is they recognize
that there's like there are different
layers of like pain and suffering so
would they use a word called book and
book means suffering and the really
interesting thing about book is that
it's actually independent to pain and
pleasure that you can have look and be
pleasure and being a life full of
pleasure or you can have look and you
can have a life full of pain or you can
have soaked which is like contentment or
bliss or happiness and being a life full
of pain so I think that these are
independent and the progress has been
like more on the physical level but I
think what we're seeing in terms of the
spike of my static line of mental yeah
so the the the you know you're saying
there's a meme for like suck like succ
is like I think that's why they're
saying that if that's what you're
looking at here ya know this is su Chi
it's the opposite of that yeah okay good
but that that those are relatively
independent and this is like a big thing
that I think a lot of the people that I
work with struggle with because a lot of
them are successful and they think that
just because you're successful you
should be happy but in my experience
success and Happiness like in terms of
worldly success are independent and that
you know I was stunned when I was
working in a jail and was talking to one
of the inmates and then like was talking
to one of my patients who's an
investment banker and that the amount of
suffering they experienced and the cause
of their suffering was essentially the
same
and it really caused me distracted
scratch my head I was like how on earth
is it that this investment banker is
feeling the same thing that this guy in
prison is feeling their lives are
completely different and it's this
recognition that you know sure life was
simpler it's hard for me to say like I
do think that social media for example
exacerbates ego and makes us more prone
to book so I would say that like social
media has that kind of effect but
generally speaking I think the whole
point that would the made was that
contentment and suffering is on a
separate axis from success joy pleasure
sadness failure and that I don't know if
that really has changed which i think is
part of the reason why like those
teachings are becoming have like been so
prevalent right there's a Darwinian like
effect on human knowledge and like this
stuff has been around for thousands of
years and that was kind of having a
revitalization because this is what we
need deep so I am incredibly atheist
very atheist very anti theological
everything when I was growing up I went
to a Catholic school from from grades 1
to 12 I want to Jesuit High School into
a Catholic grade school despite being
very anti religious I feel like
throughout the course of my entire life
the only type of institution that was
giving me any type of actual like long
term fulfillment actually came from the
Catholic Church that like everything
else in life
is kind of like geared towards like true
happiness is like going to school so you
can get a good job and you need a good
job so that you can get you know a big
house and to have some whatever like a
lot of things that don't I don't think
necessarily go towards like a more like
fulfilling life in terms of like feeling
like you're your self actualized I guess
we if we borrow the Maslow thing do you
ever think that like these are very
broad questions like do everything like
the secularization of society and kind
of like the loss of religion and the
lack of replacement for that like leads
people to get I don't know kind of lost
in terms of like the things they're
looking for like how do you direct
somebody to find purpose in life who is
like an atheist and a religious person
it seems like a really hard thing to do
for a lot of people
well those that's three questions yes
fashion is is do you think that the
secularization of society comes at a
cost and I say yeah and I think that's
why like mindfulness and yoga studios
are popping up all over the place
because that there is something that
religion used to fill which we've kind
of now fewer people are turning to and
there's been a resurgence of like
appreciation of Buddhism for example
which is sort of a religion but not
really like a judeo-christian religion
in Hinduism is kind of the same way and
and so I think yeah that's so like you
can you can look as a scientist or an
epidemiologist as I think is a better
way to think about it you can look at
trends in society and say like what is
causing people suffering now what is
causing them hurt and water people are
gravitating towards and I think that
there's a very natural correlation there
the second thing that you asked is if
someone's an atheist how can you help
them find purpose and fulfillment so I
think that Buddhism and Hinduism or good
religions because Hinduism very few
people understand this but Hinduism is
theistic and atheistic at the same time
it is monotheistic polytheistic and
atheistic all three of these doctrines
exist equally and and happily within
Buddhist I mean within Hinduism so I
think that like in terms of fine and
giving someone a sense of purpose like
they don't have to be religious but I
think it can be very helpful to turn to
religious texts because those are
sources of very good knowledge in my
opinion
so I used to be and or / am an atheist
still and I derive a lot of value out of
a lot of a Hindu and Buddhist texts
because I think it's not about like
beliefs so this is the big thing is that
judeo-christian religions are about
believing in a particular thing whereas
the Eastern religions are not they sort
of start with the idea that like pole
what you want to out of this religion
because there are many different paths
to enlightenment and so on my stream the
other day like I don't know how what
percentage of people that I listen to I
mean that watch my stream are atheists
are religious but I I did a story that's
from in theory an Indian epic / Hindu
religious sects and I think that went
really well
and the story is not like you should
believe this and it's like the 10
commandments and this is this the story
is about exploring what your purpose is
in life and it's kind of like a
convoluted thing that turns morality and
purpose like on their heads so there's
like a good guy in the story and there's
a bad guy in the story but the good guy
is the one who's not fulfilling his
purpose and the bad guy is the one who
is so it sort of causes you to grapple
with questions of duty and morality and
that those may not always line up and
like how do you navigate life how do you
find purpose I get a lot of stuff out of
some of these corner quote religious tax
even though you have to you have to
believe in the [ __ ] religion you just
you know read it and think and learn and
explore for yourself and come to your
own conclusions sure and to answer your
question in a very concrete way I think
if you're looking for purpose in life a
great text to start with is something
called the Mahabharata because it's a
it's a story about duty and
responsibility okay it's just a funny -
okay my house it looks like a good
translation is it in entertaining or I
mean I think there are cool stories like
so I liked videogames and I loved
reading the Mahabharat because there are
like different kinds of weapons and
there's like this half-demon guy that is
unkillable and then someone has to use
like he can throw lightning from the sky
and he's like a child of he's a grand
son of the wind-god
and [ __ ] like that I just like cuz it's
cool yeah yeah yeah yeah it's cool
mythology and theology especially is
usually entertaining I've tried to get
more philosophy and oh my [ __ ] god
reading anything by even Hume or Khan or
anything is a very [ __ ] dry holy [ __ ]
yeah I think so that's what I like about
the Mara they're like their cool stories
about betrayal and and like tricking and
like there's this guy who was saving
this one arrow so he's got like this
one-shot kill it's like he's got this
one very special arrow that will destroy
anything that he shoots it against and
like if you're playing against that how
do you create a situation where they
have to use their one-shot kill and
protect your ace in the hole and so it's
sort of like stories like that that I
think are cool okay um alright is that
it guys anything else are we good I I
think we're good man thanks a lot
destiny
thanks a lot of your stuff heard what do
you well yeah I'm
people are crucifying me because I
forget to do that yes oh right so you
know a couple of things so we stream
ice-cream on on Twitch and I do like
sort of mental health support content
teach meditation help people understand
you know how they work as human beings
because it's my belief that a lot of the
reasons that we get stuck in life is we
don't understand like where we come from
like how our mind works how our mind got
to be that way and if you want to make a
change in your life you have to
understand like where the origins of
your patterns come from so I essentially
try to help people do that we also have
a website called hell ww healthy game or
not GG where originally was about
treating people with video game
addiction but now we're just sort of
expanding on all this stuff we have a
beta program that we're training coaches
in so we've got about a dozen coaches
that I'm personally training cuz I get
about 20 to 200 requests for people to
for me to work with them per day so
there's no way I can help everyone I
want to but I'm training a group of
coaches the beta is now closed because
we kind of filled up and so we're
basically trying to create a community
for gamers to support themselves support
each other in sort of mental health for
gamers by gamers it is not a medical
thing so I'm a clinician but it's not
medical so it's not intended to diagnose
or treat anything so people should
understand that we've got a discord and
all that kind of good stuff to and if
y'all want to come on stream and have me
talk to you then I'm open to doing that
we have people all kinds of people come
on stream awesome do you have a link
your discord in your chatter whatever if
you bring it up I can link it on my
community or whatever I don't know how
to do that exclamation mark disquiet um
yeah I think that I think that link
should be fine okay cool awesome yeah
well yeah thanks a lot everyone a chat
again or if I wanna chat again I'll hit
you up and yeah yeah let me know cool
thanks you decide to explore your
emotions the college you know bye bye